General Specifications  
Languages: 

* React (.tsx)  
* Typescript (.ts) (JavaScript but with type safety)

Required Libraries: 

* Node/NPM  
* Express  
* Prettier   
  * This is a library and a VSCode extension  
* Vite  
  * vitejs/plugin-react  
* Node Express  
* Typescript  
* Nodemon  
* TailwindCSS  
* React-router-dom  
* Axios (for API requests)  
  * npm install axios  
* Cors (for backend access from frontend)   
  * npm install cors

**Backend:**   
The backend is based on a google sheet, which holds the responses to a google form for rescheduling requests. It uses a Google Sheet API. 

| Getting Access to the Google Sheet API:  There are two things that you’ll need to get access to the sheet API. First, I’ll need to add you as a TEST USER to the project. You’ll also need access to the sheet we’ll be using.  |
| :---- |

Folder structure

* Node\_modules  
  * Contains files for node library. *Do not touch.*  
* Src (source code)  
  * Controllers  
    * Handles any errors or mishaps.   
    * Runs services  
  * Models  
    * Defines shape of API results. Tells the code what it will be receiving, and in what shape.   
    * Define DB structures.   
  * Routes  
    * Defines URL that the API is called from (/searchByName/:name)  
  * Services  
    * Actually taps the API (google sheets)   
  * credentials.json: this allows the backend to access google sheets. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.  
  * SHEET\_CONSTANTS: stores sheet ID and tab names. Centralized way to make sure changing the sheet is easy  
  * [Index.ts](http://Index.ts) → initializes the server, declares all routes, runs google sign in

**Frontend:**   
Provide an intuitive interface to complete scheduling requests. The Frontend has three key components: 

* Request reception: displays all requests in order of submission, and aggregates requests by the same person in one box. Allows the user to move requests between columns. **(MVP)**  
* Waitlist tracking: tracks waitlists by class, and adds people to waitlists when the user clicks a button. Displays waitlists by block on a separate page.   
* Change history: tracks all changes made for easy reference, allows users to make notes. Displays history on a separate page

